---
layout: post
title: Registration with AngularFire and Firebase
---


Today we’ll build an application using AngularFire and Firebase. It's an extra credit assignment, part of my bloc-chat app.
what is bloc-chat.
Bloc Chat is a chatting app which let you create your own chatrooms and send messages.its part of my front-end curriculum at Bloc. So for this assignment I'm going to be learning how to authenticate user and I'm going to be sharing my step by step process as I go through this assignment so other newbie can learn something from this too. This is by no mean professional tutorial.

---

Creating a registration and login system for our app is an important part of creating app and it usually require our own backend but in this tutorial we are going to use Firebase and AngularFire to create our login system.
For our project we need these files and folders. In our Index.html we have basic html structure and in our login and register html we have form with input fields.

     - App
    	 - templates
    		 - login.html
    		 - register.html
    	 - js

    		 - controllers
    			 - RegisterCtrl.js    
    		 - services  
    			 - Auth.js
    		 - app.js
    	 - Index.html

---

## Setting up AngularJS ##
First step is to add Angular CDN in our index.html, right before body closing tag.


  {% highlight js %}
      <script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.6.4/angular.min.js"></script>
      {% endhighlight %}


Next we are going identify part of that page that should be controlled by angularjs. we do that by adding ng-app directive to our html element. we also have to add ng-view and nav to our index.html. Type following code inside body tag.

{% highlight js %}
<nav class="navbar">
  <!-- navigation bar -->
  <a ui-sref="index" class="logo">
    Angular
  </a>
  <div class="links-container">
    <a ui-sref="login" class="navbar-link">login</a>
    <a ui-sref="register" class="navbar-link">register</a>

  </div>

</nav>
<ui-view></ui-view>
{% endhighlight %}


### How does AngularJS view applications ###
Angular has MVC type architecture, so m in MVC is model which just mean data you are using for your service, v stands for view and is nothing more than a template. The last part or the c part is for controllers. controller is javascript which connect the view and the modal.

In our app/app.js create angular module and inject Ui-routes dependency.Routes are a way of splitting your applicaton into diffent pieces, they take us to the diffent section of website.They control diffent templates and connect them to their specif javascript that controls them.The $state service is provided by ui-router for us to control the state of our application. So using .state link your html and controller to diffent route. Type this code in app.js:

{% highlight js %}
       (function() {
      function config($locationProvider, $stateProvider) {
        $locationProvider
          .html5Mode({
            enabled: true,
            requireBase: false
          });

    $stateProvider

      .state('login', {
        url: '/',
        controller: 'RegisterCtrl as regCtrl',
        templateUrl: '/templates/login.html',


      })
      .state('register', {
        url: '/register',
        controller: 'RegisterCtrl as regCtrl',
        templateUrl: '/templates/register.html',

      })
      .state('home', {
        url: '/home',

        templateUrl: '/templates/home.html'
      });
      }

          angular
            .module('myApp', ['ui.router'])
            .config(config);
        })();
        {% endhighlight %}


  **Creating basic controllers**
Controllers handle the interaction between the template and the view. notice in app/app.js, we specify RegisterCtrl as our controller for both the login and register states but we haven't created the controller yet.
Create a controller named RegisterCtrl and following code:

{% highlight js %}
   angular.module('myApp')
              .controller('RegisterCtrl', function(){
                var regCtrl = this;
});
{% endhighlight %}

Create the following login function and register function inside the controller:

{% highlight js %}
      regCtrl.login = function (){
        };
      regCtrl.register = function (){

       };
       {% endhighlight %}

In app/index.html, include RegisterCtrl  script.
> In app/template/register.html, add ng-submit to the form and specify regCtrl.register() as the submit function.
 Add ng-model="regCtrl.user.email" to the email input.
 Add ng-model="regCtrl.user.password" to the password input.
 The resulting form should look like this:


     {% highlight js %}
     <form ng-submit="regCtrl.register()">
       <div class="input-group">
         <input type="email" class="form-control" placeholder="Email" ng-model="regCtrl.user.email">
       </div>
       <div class="input-group">
         <input type="password" class="form-control" placeholder="Password" ng-model="regCtrl.user.password">
       </div>
       <input type="submit" class="btn btn-default" value="Register">
     </form>
     {% endhighlight %}

  Add the same properties to login.html, only this time instead of using register function use login function.

{% highlight js %}
      <form ng-submit="regCtrl.login()">
        <div class="input-group">
          <input type="email" class="form-control" placeholder="Email" ng-model="regCtrl.user.email">
        </div>
        <div class="input-group">
          <input type="password" class="form-control" placeholder="Password" ng-model="regCtrl.user.password">
        </div>
        <input type="submit" value="Log In">
      </form>
      {% endhighlight %}

---

  Now we have our basic form and controllers created, in the next part of tutorial we are going to manage registration with firebase.

  [Part 2](/2017/09/13/login_part2.html)   
