---
layout: post
title: AngularFire and Firebase 2
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img.png"
---
**What is Firebase?**


Firebase is  a backend service that provide data storage, file storage, authentication and static website hosting for your angular app. It save us a lot of time by cutting down development.
**what is AngularFire?**
AngularFire is the officially supported AngularJS binding for Firebase. It's an open source library  maintained by Firebase team.It provide us with serval Angular services like $firebaseObject, $firebaseAuth and $firebaseArray.

---

**Getting started with Firebase:**

 Sign up for free Firebase account and created a new project .
 > AngularFire require firebase in order to authenticate user and store data but to use it we have to add Angular fire to our project.

 In our html add the following code:

{% highlight js %}
    <!-- Angular -->
    <script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.6.4/angular.min.js"></script>
    <!-- FireBase -->
    <script src="https://www.gstatic.com/firebasejs/3.9.0/firebase.js"></script>
    <!-- AngularFire -->
<script src="https://cdn.firebase.com/libs/angularfire/2.3.0/angularfire.min.js"></script>
{% endhighlight %}

---

**Configure the Firebase SDK:**


we will need to initialize Firebase SDK before we can use it. In the "Authentication" section of the Firebase click on the web setup and you will see a script tag, copy that code. In your app/app.js file add that code. It should look like this:

{% highlight js %}
    <script src="https://www.gstatic.com/firebasejs/4.3.1/firebase.js"></script>
    <script>
      // Initialize Firebase
      var config = {
        apiKey: "AIzaSyBFml35hjFfmJa2V-4TrRUJWeV66Rouu2M",
        authDomain: "bloc-chat-a7c04.firebaseapp.com",
        databaseURL: "https://bloc-chat-a7c04.firebaseio.com",
        projectId: "bloc-chat-a7c04",
        storageBucket: "bloc-chat-a7c04.appspot.com",
        messagingSenderId: "565299813267"
      };
      firebase.initializeApp(config);
    </script>
    {% endhighlight %}

---

  > Before using Angularfire, we need to add firebase as a dependency to our module. This will import properties and methods we need to work with service.

  In our app/app.js file add:



{% highlight js %}
    var app= angular.module("myApp", ["firebase"]);
    {% endhighlight %}

> We will also have to add fire base to our registration controller.



**Creating the Auth Service:**
AngularFire provides a service named $firebaseAuth which can be injected in the services.
> create a new service called Auth in app/services/auth.js and add following code:

{% highlight js %}
    (function() {

      function Auth($rootScope,$firebaseAuth){
        var ref = firebase.database().ref();
        var auth= $firebaseAuth();

        return {};
      }

      angular
        .module('myApp')
        .factory('Auth', ['$rootScope','$firebaseAuth', Auth]);
    })();
    {% endhighlight %}

> here we are creating auth variable that references a $firebaseAuth instance.

when working with FireBase the first thing we have to do is references to our database.

Next we will need to add functions, one for registering users and one for logging in users. $firebaseAuth provides us with two functions: $authWithPassword for logging in users and $createUser for registering users.

> Create the following login and register function in Auth service:


{% highlight js %}
  return {  
    login: function(user){
        $rootScope.message='Welcome' + user.email;
     } //login
     register: function(user){
       auth.$createUserWithEmailandPassword(user.email,user.password).then(function (regUser){
         $rootScope.message='Welcome' + user.firstName;
         }).catch( function (error){
           $rootScope.message = error.message;
           });//createUserWithEmailandPassword
         };//register
       }
       {% endhighlight %}

---

When authentication is successful, we want to show message to welcome user otherwise it will show error.
Next we have to update out template.
In app/index.html, include the auth service after where app.js is included.

{% highlight js %}
    <script src="app.js"></script>

    <script src="services/auth.js"></script>
    {% endhighlight %}

**Inject our Auth service in to our registration controller.**
> To login and register all we have to do is call our Auth service and then issue the login and register method, passing in the user information.

{% highlight js %}
    angular.module('myApp')
      .controller('RegistrationCtrl', function(Auth){
        var regCtrl = this;
        regCtrl.login= function(){
          Auth.login(regCtrl.user);
        }
        regCtrl.register= function(){
          Auth.register(regCtrl.user);
        }

      });
      {% endhighlight %}

---

Now we should be able to register and if we go to firebase we will be able to see user. In the next part we will see how to store user data in the Firebase.

---

[Prevous](/2017/09/11/login_part1.html) [Next](/2017/09/13/login_part3.html)
