---
layout: post
title: AngularFire and Firebase 3
---
Firebase provides us with a means of authentication, all of the authentication data is separate from our Firebase data and can't be queried. It is up to us to store any custom user data within Firebase manually. In order to store user's data in Firebase we have to modify our auth service.

---

**Storing user information**

To our Auth service, modify the '.then' function and add following code:

{% highlight js %}

  register: function(user) {
      auth.$createUserWithEmailAndPassword(
            user.email,
            user.password
       ).then(function(regUser) {
          var regRef = ref.child('users')
            .child(regUser.uid).set({
                date: firebase.database.ServerValue.TIMESTAMP,
                regUser: regUser.uid,
                firstname: user.firstname,
                lastname: user.lastname,
                email: user.email
          }); //userinfo
{% endhighlight %}


Here first we created reference to the user node and than we created user object with properties we want to store. We should now be able to store our user info when we register to our database. storing data onto firebase is quite simple and combine with the authentication features that it offers, it makes firebase a great place for our application.

---

**Redirecting user to home page**

Now we have a functional registration service but we haven't told it what to do when user is successful login. Add following code to our login method:

{% highlight js %}
    login: function(user) {
      auth.$signInWithEmailAndPassword(
        user.email,
        user.password
      ).then(function(user) {
        $location.path('/home');
      }).catch(function(error) {
        $rootScope.message = error.message;
      }); //signInWithAndPassword
    }, //login
{% endhighlight %}


We are using a method called signInWithEmailAndPassword and passing along user email and password. Next we are using promises which is an then method and with the help of location service we want to redirect our users to home page.

---

**Showing user name**

we already store user information to our database, when a user register but in order to access that information we have to include some more functionality. In our Auth service outside of our return mehtod, add the following code:

{% highlight js %}
auth.$onAuthStateChanged(function(authUser) {
  if (authUser) {
    var userRef = ref.child('users').child(authUser.uid);
    var userObj = $firebaseObject(userRef);
    $rootScope.currentUser = userObj;
  } else {
    $rootScope.currentUser = '';

  }
});
{% endhighlight %}

Inject $firebaseObject as dependency.
In our index.html add the following code:
{% highlight js %}
<div class="userinfo" ng-show='currentUser' ng-controller='RegisterCtrl'>
  <span> currentUser.firstname </span>

</div>
{% endhighlight %}

We should now be able to display user name. Now we can login/register users, store user information and also able to display user name but we can't logout user, so in the next part we are going to create function to logout our user. 

---


 [Prevous](/2017/09/13/login_part2.html)
